all right folks welcome back this is our
27th episode of the continuing series of
the free
2022 ict mentorship on youtube
all right so massdeck
daily chart for june 2022
and here we have
friday's trading here okay
friday thursday wednesday tuesday monday
so we had a nice little
decline down in this week and then
friday we have somewhat of a retracement
if you've been following my community
posts on the youtube channel
i mentioned this morning
that the 12
553 level
is too clean and you can kind of see it
in here like look at the high on this
candle it's twelve thousand five forty
seven and then here this high is
twelve thousand five hundred and fifty
three
so i'm using this as the higher one but
these relative equal highs that's what
i'm looking at
so i'm i'm thinking that it could draw
there now i was giving it the
opportunity to do so today based on what
i showed in these short little vignettes
i've posted on my video section
i was out about today so obviously i was
sharing what i could on my phone i don't
generally trade
on the phone i can manage a position but
i'm not generally trying to enter trades
and such but
i made a mistake today
and i was trying to exit as i'll talk
about in a moment when we get into lower
timeframes but
i was
showing segments of me recording where
the market was what it was doing when i
was entering the whole business and
you'll actually see the execution errors
and all that business here tonight but
uh the relative equal highs that was the
draw on liquidity now the draw on
liquidity does not need to be traded to
to have a profitable
framework or setup okay so what do i
mean by that
well if we're below this objective
and i'm thinking and if which you
thinking the same thing if you think
that market's going to draw up to that
level whether it be today or into next
week
you look for a setup that will allow you
some kind of participation
in this expansion towards that
it doesn't need to get there as you'll
soon see
we're going to drop down into
the hourly chart all right so here's the
hourly chart you can see
relative equal highs up in here look at
the high on that candle there that's the
12 553 and a quarter level okay so
that's what i'm framing it on
and
we traded down
started to run higher
we had a shift in market structure here
and then just
notice how we have had
this low this low
swept
we came down below it
came back above these relative equal
lows
and then we came back down tried one
more time to go lower and then rejected
it notice that so as the market's
starting to trade higher
where is it likely to go well we've
already taken out a large pool of
liquidity below these relatively equal
lows
this is sell side okay
now we're back above these relative
equal lows so where's buy side clear and
obviously right here okay
not really
obvious in terms of any imbalance in
here because we already rebalanced this
area there
so there's nothing really all that
exciting except for that small little
section there so if it's going to go up
to this area here my thought process is
that it's likely to probably just punch
through and take the buy stops resting
above here so that's the the draw on
liquidity just think of it like a big
magnet drawing price up towards it okay
so
we're going to drop down into a 15
minute time frame
[Music]
all right so here's the 15 minute time
frame and here's friday the 13th you
scared
are you scared so we have the market
trade here lower low low so this right
here may trip you up but this right here
was a 9 30 in the morning manipulation
where it takes up this overnight london
low
creates the manipulation idea then
rallies i was not available during this
time so i didn't take any trades as
you'll see there's no trades in this
area
and then the retracement here in the
afternoon that's what i was looking for
so i wanted to see that type of
idea
so
i'm going to add
the annotations to the chart now all
right so here's the five minute chart
and here's the overnight
london lows
9 30 we run through it
taking out the sell side here and then
it starts to rally
all this rallying up here i was not able
to participate in the market trades
lower
down into the range
between this low
and this high
what is it trading to
discount
so
i'm going to go into
this area a little bit tighter
okay so we can see
here's our consolidation it drops down
creates the low of the day
power three so it's accumulating long
positions
manipulating
early longs out of the market
taking out the stops overnight
then rallying
and then
i'm looking for the continuation up to
take out the relative equal highs here
because i think i'm still going to see
continuation in the afternoon
so i want to buy this discount market
and i'm going to be buying inside of
this
value gap because it's
at or below equilibrium between this low
and the high all right so i've added the
annotations here and i gotta adjust this
because my obsessive compulsive disorder
is flaring
it's like a spider sense folks
can't help it all right so we have
the new york
session open at 9 30 in the morning new
york local time
creates the low of the day rallies
creates the high here at what time what
time is this candle here it's 12 10
that's that lunch time and i told you it
creates usually a retracement of some
sort or consolidation then it retraces
lower and then here is 130 right about
there so at 130
the algorithm will start seeking
liquidity if it's going to continue
higher what's it likely to do
seek sell sign so we're sell side well
we have relative equal loads here but is
that a discount from here to here
no
so this dashed line here that's in
purple i have that noted as equilibrium
that's essentially the same thing as
it's taking the fib from here
to here and that's 50
okay so now we have equilibrium there
the market drops down into equilibrium
and then below it
into
the variable gap here
this candle is high this candle is low
that's your imbalance
failure gap is here so the market drops
down into it here at
two o'clock in the afternoon
and then displacement
okay we'll see this fair value gap on
the
lower time frames i'm going to go
through and let you see it but
this
displacement on the outside is a shift
in market structure
in a day that's likely to be bullish
it's counter trend to a higher time
frame
we're working with the logic that it's
probably going to be a retracement
because we've been down for a long time
now
and most people are probably going to
want to
get out
over the weekend so the algorithm is
going to start squeezing on them to get
their positions
squared before the close of the friday
so
in this area here
we're going to drop down into
a four-minute chart
okay
no fair value got shown here except for
this small little area there now by
itself
you know that's possible
you get a small little return into it
there
i'm not looking at that okay
go down into a
three-minute chart
okay
there's a gap there again you can see
that candle right there that would be
fine if that's what you were looking for
and then two minute chart
there is
gotta set my chart back
it's got to be the way i want it folks
all right so we have
down closed candles in here order block
fair value gap this candle is low
this candle is high there's our
imbalance
the order block
it trades down drops into that
and i'm going to show you
the executions
here
so as it's dropping down
in here
you can see i have
hover top of this thing
i bought 36 contracts
and the assumption is we're using a
discount broker something like amp
futures i'm not repping amp futures by
the way
but they have really
low margins so that would be allowed for
something with the equity that was used
in this example today these are paper
trades so you guys know for compliance
reasons and full disclosure
i'm illustrating execution and theory
okay
i'm also showing you what i was doing
when i was on twitter
when i did use mt4 which i don't do
anymore i haven't used mt4 in years okay
i don't need to have a fake mt4 server
to be able to do this okay
this is what i was doing
and i was trading it and building it up
and building it up and building it up so
in a matter of a week or so i've taken a
hundred thousand dollar account took it
over 300 000
okay and you'll see that here in a
second but
as it was dropping down dropping down
all this candle here i was buying at the
beginning of the um fair value gap
and about the middle of it and i was
trying to get into the lower portions of
it but it didn't quite get down there so
the fairway gap in the shaded area
that's what's being shown here
take that off for clarity's sake and we
drop in here
i mentioned
in the small little vignette again i've
done
three videos today
that were basically silent i put a
little bit of a music thing on it just
to
i don't know i was testing it out i was
really disappointed didn't play the
entire time the video was playing but
whatever
the idea was i was showing you that when
we went into the order block that it was
going to rally up
okay and it rallied up and then i took
off 10. i saw a small little vignette
shows me closing 10 contracts
there and i was looking for it to
maybe stage a run up into
that twelve five five three level that i
mentioned on
my community post
okay but obviously we were running out
of time today and i messed up on the
close of the 20 contracts because i
wanted to take off 20 above here and try
to put it in as a limit order but it
ended up closing his market so what i
should have done was and i said this to
my private group too
i'm working with tradingview but i'm
used to using actual live platforms so
the things that i can do in other places
i can't necessarily do here and because
i'm doing it on my phone and i was out
doing other things it real real life and
this is the reason why you don't want to
be trading off of your phone okay but
anyway i ended up closing uh the 20 here
so i didn't get it above that 12
430 level i was trying to aim for
so i missed it there and then i closed
more here
and here
and then finally in late in the day i
had one left and i just took it off here
okay
so that's the business there and
i want you to look at
how the market created this counter
trend idea but still using my fair value
gap principle and concept
liquidity was above here
the day was bullish
the algorithm kept pricing higher and
higher and higher
and the logic was delivered here
so look at where the arrows are for
entries
and this was a failure on my part i
didn't get the price i actually wanted
none of these closures were actually
above the 12
430 level that was i think the closest
one
yeah that was the closest one there
so and i had one left over here and that
was the final bit of business i was
leaving it just in case some freaky
occurrence where it would take us up in
some parabolic run into
twelve five five three but
this wasn't in the cards today we're
gonna steam
you can frame what i'm teaching
inside of a counter trend model if
that's what you are by nature a
contrarian
if you want to be trading with the
highest probability
and in sync
with the early session move
then trade exactly how i've outlined the
principles around that 8 30 to 9 30
window okay
i'm trying to do my best to give you a
little bit of freedom
to try to make it your own
and inspire you also that these fair
value gaps are useful if you know what
the bias is okay and i know some of you
are still posting in the comment section
i'm still struggling with vice it's only
because you haven't worked at it long
enough okay it you're not going to watch
a dozen of my videos
and come away now i know exactly how to
do bias you have to go into the charts
and study each day back testing what is
back testing going back and looking at
moves like this
okay
marking them up on your chart now you
can do it either using the replay button
watching them paint partially
or you can go back in hindsight and mark
up your chart like this this is all back
testing
all this is is me
showing you what i actually did now i
was going to be facetious and talk about
this for those that didn't really see
the videos that i posted today where
actually did the pushing of the button
here
the idea of me seeing it before it
happens
that's proof of concept and it's proof
of understanding
okay so
i'm the author of this algorithm so i
can
operate in it very
efficiently
you as a student of mine you have to
understand my language first and then
you go into the charts and you study
with that language and you'll be able to
see repeating phenomena and because
you're able to do this in your own
leisure
you collect these
examples of hindsight movement with all
of your annotations and your points of
interest that you
studied and see in your observations
anywhere in a chart where it's empty
space you want to utilize that and have
any kind of observation or encouragement
to yourself
and you want to tell yourself in those
commentaries
that
you saw this coming
okay and what this does is it tricks
your brain
it's self-talk okay it's one of the
things i actually use to overcome
agoraphobia which was the fear of being
around other people because i had
extreme anxiety that started
obviously from trading because i built
up this large
image of myself
and in 2001
all that stuff happened okay and i was
afraid of a lot of things and i had
serious anxiety attacks panic attacks
that would come on out of nowhere
the
coping skills that i learned to deal
with generalized anxiety
i
found that were very useful in teaching
my students
and it was simply by taking
positive self-talk placing that into
your back testing
where you're note taking your
by all
face value of it you're lying to
yourself in these
posts in your back testing so in your
study journal only you were seeing it
but you're tricking your brain and your
subconscious because you're writing it
out in your own words you're studying it
you're looking at it your subconscious
is retaining the image but it's also
retaining what you're saying in it so
when you come back to it at the end of
the week or the previous weeks
back testing log journals
you read them
and when you read them to yourself
you're reading your own words saying i
saw this setting up where this was
likely to drop down here and i was
expecting this turn here because the
fair value got i wanted to see this
displacement and it occurred just like i
was expecting and it comes back down and
allows me an opportunity to go long
then i expected the market to move
aggressively away from this area and
start working towards the short-term
highs
and i wanted to take something off above
halfway high to low i want to take a
premium profit scaling and that's what
that is there
so
you're pouring yourself into the chart
with your annotations for back testing
and you're doing it in such a way where
you're tricking your subconscious like
you expected this to happen and over
time when you do that you're recording
this subconsciously you don't realize
you're doing it but
by doing these things over and over and
over again it activates your reticular
activating system it's the same thing
happens when you buy a car you go out
the next day all of a sudden it seems
like everybody else bought the same car
the only difference is is you've been
more sensitive to that because it's more
meaningful to you so these charts will
take on that same characteristic when
you make them more meaningful to you how
do you do that you place your
personality
and your interest in the chart so
everything here i'm giving you a
narrative here you would do the same
thing just typing it out putting it in
there and then screen capturing it and
storing it in your journal or printing
it out and putting in your journal
those things over time
will start building on your subconscious
as pseudo-memories
so
critics that hear me say this you're
like oh you're you know this fraud's
telling you to lie to yourself
i'm being honest you are lying in the
chart when you do your annotations for
study purposes you're tricking your
brain
like you had experience seeing this
happen but because over time you're
doing that your subconscious will retain
that and when you start seeing it live
it will remember hey i remember that
because i did that before when you
technically really didn't
but then now you have pseudo experience
it sounds
strange like it couldn't possibly work
like this but it does
our brains are extremely
intricate they're very powerful but they
can be short-circuited a little bit and
used
in an advantageous way of studying
and this is one way i teach my students
in mentorship and this is what i'm
trying to suggest that you do for your
back testing all you have to do is look
at old moves study them annotate your
charts it's as rich as you want that
chart to be
that's what you're doing you're trying
to make it as
meaningful to you as you possibly can
and
over time you'll create a
measure of pseudo experience
that will build upon
over time how much time it i don't know
it although you're gonna develop at your
own pace
and you're going to arrive at full
understanding
right on time
so it might be a couple weeks for some
of you may take a year for others it may
take a little bit longer than that it
depends on what you pour yourself into
by doing it
and i'll leave that part up for you to
decide how much effort you're going to
put into it but
i wanted to share something today and
kind of like answer those individuals
that like to say that mt4 rented servers
were used and stuff and i don't need
that folks i mean it's not necessary
so
um
let's
go over here
and you can see
there's a hundred thousand
and there's some red in there folks yeah
two back-to-back losing trades
okay
and that was
the business
okay that was uh since the sixth of this
month
100 000 account to 354 000 paper trading
obviously but
that's what i was doing on twitter all
those years i was showing and showing
and showing
and this proves
concept it proves that these things work
i'm looking at live data when i'm doing
this this is actually no delay you can
see there's no d up here there's no
little dot showing you it's as real as
real can be okay
if i can't see these things happening
before it happens it will fail
but if i can see them live
forming
and i haven't understand what the
algorithm is going to do then i should
be able to operate like this
and i saw a comment today on
one of the video vignettes i did
and can we get past the drama and
proving who made money
i'm not sure what the poster intended
with that because i thought
that was what you wanted to see when you
came here like why would you come to my
channel or anyone else's channel that
has anything to do with technical
analysis or trading
if they can't prove they can do what
they say they can do
all i'm doing
is sharing
my experience
and the prowess i have if i can't do
this i'll follow my face i can do it and
i want to be an encouragement to those
that are genuinely concerned because
they see stupid stuff posted on the
internet
folks listen
i don't know
how much of this you need to see before
you finally get over it but i don't mind
doing it okay i don't mind doing it i
enjoy doing this i enjoy sharing it and
i know it's an encouragement to people
that had a little bit of doubt say hey
look you know
did you really use an mt4 rented server
on twitter because we don't really see
it we just hear other people talking
about it well here's again more proof
that listen this is just a matter of
like a week or so okay
um in five and a half weeks or six weeks
i could easily do what i'm doing here
and it compounds over and over and over
again okay
just because
i'm doing it with a demo account
doesn't mean that you're gonna be able
to go out there and do it too with a
live account the only thing i'm showing
you here is i understand what i'm doing
so i think that's going to be it for
tonight and i will touch base with you
lord willing next tuesday for another
lecture
and probably a little bit longer video
then okay until then enjoy your weekend
be safe